This is the beginning of the sewing.
I have gone through this section,
the first section,
and erased the pencil marks
that I had put down for page numbers,
and I will do that with each section
before I sew it on.
I'm going to sew through the original sewing holes
very much like it was sewn originally,
and instead of on vellum sewing supports,
I'm using linen sewing supports,
and I've got them set up on the sewing frame
so that they are lined up
with the original sewing stations.
So first of all,
I will find the center fold of this section,
line it up with the sewing tapes.
And I'm going to put a weight on here
so that it doesn't move around.
I am going to lace this thread
-this is a linen thread-which I've got . . .
I've already got it waxed.
I've got it on a needle here.
I've just got it laced through the needle.
I'm going to lock it on right now
by spreading the twist out
and pushing the needle through the twist
and then just pulling it back.
That locks it in place
so that the needle doesn't fall off a lot.
Now I'm going to start the sewing
where the original sewing began.
First I will pierce a hole from the inside,
but then I will put the needle
through that hole from the outside,
and that is the beginning
of the sewing right there.
Now I will leave a little bit of a tail
out here so that I can tie off onto that
when I get to the end of the next signature.
Is this okay, turning it this way?
You can see this okay?
What I'm doing? Okay.
So now I'm going to sew through the center fold
so that the sewing will go on the outside
around these supports here.
Sometimes it is a little bit of a struggle
to get the needle through with the knot,
through those holes.
And I am making sure that the thread is snug.
I don't want to pull it too tight.
As I come in the inside,
I just make sure that I'm pulling it tight,
that it's tightening up
around the sewing supports here.
I'll take this weight off.
Go to the next signature.